---
layout: post
title: SW-Final-Reflection
---
Author: Silas Myane
# Final Reflection
Working with the Salvation Army I learn lots of new and important skills. Working with a community partner is much different than working with a group that is within in the college. Also this project was a lot different than other projects I have worked on in the fact that it was a semester long project, and it was with a large group of 6 people. Working with a community partner is something that I have never done before. Reflecting back on the semester I learned that the most important part of working in a large group with a community partner is communication. Another important aspect of working with a community partner is learning how to respect their time and their requests. Working with the Salvation Army we were tasked with creating a website that would allow for volunteers to sign up and work their events. This websites goal was to be able to reduce the amount of paperwork and spreadsheets the Salvation Army would have to keep. My group used a group chat and a trello board to keep our group organized and communicate. My groups communication was good I would say but there are definitely a few things that we could have communicated better. Dr Goadrich was very helpful in giving us the resources keep our group organized. Working with the Salvation Army we had to realize the limitations that some of the people that volunteer for them and plan our designs around those limitations. For example, lots of the people who volunteer for the salvation army are not very tech savvy so we needed to design our website around that. We had to make sure that our website was very simple to understand and very simple to use. This turned out to big a little bit harder for us than we thought because as a computer science group we naturally want to make things fancy and complex. However, we had to learn to scale it down and make things simple. Throughout this project I learned a few things about myself that I do well and a few areas that I need to improve on. Coming into this community project I knew my communication skills were a little lacking and that this project would cause me to have to improve on them. This project forced me to communicate and coordinate with my team a lot. We needed to be very coordinated in what everyone was working on so we could make sure that no one was overlapping in their work. Also communication played a huge part in our project because working with a large group we needed to make sure that when we combined all of our work together it would all mesh together relatively easy without a lot of merge conflicts. This project also tested my leadership skills as someone needed to step up and lead the group to make sure that the things that need to get done were getting done. I feel that I stepped up along with another kid in our group to lead the group and make sure that everyone in the group was working and getting their portion of the project done in a timely manner. Overall I feel like our group worked well together with a few minor conflicts that are bound to happen within any group project.
